---
layout: post
title: "Sessions 6 and 7"
date: 2017-11-17
excerpt: "Balance in everything"
tags:
- P&G
- Board game
feature: "https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/MediaLibraries/URMCMedia/childrens-hospital/giving/images/gch-slider/giving-2016-phaseii.jpg"
comments: true
---
# Starting to balance
At this point in our game I feel as though the mechanics are there, it just needs a few tweaks to round things off. It was at this point as a group we decided to host a few play test sessions with friends and family. Personally, I conducted 2 play test sessions, one with peers from the course and another with work mates who are big into board games.

## Structure
The play tests would go as follows. I would introduce the game to the players and explain the rules and how to play throughout the first round of play, I would then stop directing the players and see how they chose to pay without my help. After the second round we'd play another and at the end of that round I'd take a midway break to ask a few questions about the game, the look and feel, how they were finding it so far and whether they were interested in playing more. The answers were always vague as the players hadn't really gotten the hang of things yet, but the comments were always positive, and the players seemed interested to see it through.

We'd then play the rest of the game to its conclusion, win or lose.
After completing the game I’d ask again how the players felt, but this time more details about each mechanic as well as questions to do with the theme such as "Did you feel financial pressure when playing", "Did you feel there were restrictions on how many staff you could use" etc.

## Results
When asked about the look and feel of the game, both groups responded positively. They thought the pieces and colours are nice however we need to work on getting a final board and card designs sorted as without them the game is disorganised and hard to visualise.

I also asked about how well the game tied in with the theme and both groups thought that the game fitted the theme just fine. 

There were multiple comments on the staff mechanics. Players in both groups failed to use staff properly causing their failure late game, they both pointed out that staff seemed useless early game which is why they weren’t brought fast enough. This is a criticism I agree with, for their cost staff members are far too limited and don't get enough done per turn. Our peers recommended that we add doctor classes with individual abilities which I think is a great idea that should be brought up asap.

The players felt that funds and blueprints were spread out well enough, there weren't too many funds as to be too easy, but funds weren’t too restrictive as to make the game too difficult.

The difficulty of the game was also brought up in one of the sessions, as some rounds were too easy, and then the following round would be way too difficult. As a group we already agree that the game needs to be rebalanced so It's what we are aiming to focus on in the next play test sessions.

# Play test session 6
We started off this session by double checking our notes and replaying the game to make sure that we still felt the same way as we did when we last left off. This only resulted in us further confirming that the game was unbalanced, and a few mechanics need tweaking. At this point I mentioned adding the doctor classes, so we tried a quick run through.
## Fixing doctors
The doctor classes we added were a hopper doctor that could chain together curing patients and a stationary doctor that would clear patients in an Aloe around them. After half an hour of play we concluded that this changed the feel of the game too much, shifting the focus far away from managing building and primarily to staff.

with 2 hours under our belt and nothing to show for it, we called it a day.

# Test session 7
Today we set out to balancing the game. 
## Balance, balance, balance
We started by adding an intake of patients every turn but quickly found that it broke the fundamentals of our game by making players spend too much time per round building which made subsequent rounds even easier. We eventually reverted to having a fixed intake at the start of the round, increasing the intake from 8 to 10 cards and reducing the number of turns in a round down to 4 and overall rounds to 5. For now, this worked better than before so we set of to change research.
## Researching research
in Italy we thought research seemed a bit random, so we decided to try out the idea of having a research tree with set rewards at each tier. Whilst this worked we felt that in the end it deterred from the overall player experience as it became too much of a focus, so we ended up reverting it back to how it was to begin with.
## Fixing doctors
We also decided as a quick fix to allow doctors to move one more tile per round, in the following testing we found this to be quite successful as it allowed players to better maunder their doctors which made them far more useful. 


