---
layout: post
title: "The NHS"
date: 2017-10-16
excerpt: "3 play sessions in"
tags:
- P&G
- Board game
feature: "https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/MediaLibraries/URMCMedia/childrens-hospital/giving/images/gch-slider/giving-2016-phaseii.jpg"
comments: true
---

# The final idea
So after about 2 or so meetups out group finally decided on a theme and the base for a game that we'd like to further develop.
Although my initial Counter-terrorism idea went down nicely with the group, we were reminded that the game couldn't be asymetrical, so in the bin it went.
After hours of debating a topic and trying to come up with a board game that works we came up with a list that we would play test:
- A co-operative hospital building sim based around cuts to budget and staff in the NHS
- A mario party style game based around the oppression in north korea
- And finally, a game of guess who about border control and terrorism

Our group couldn't decide which one would work better than the other so we decided to play test them and the initial results were conclusive.
The mario party game sucked. full stop. The mini games we came up with were trash and couldn't be played fast enough, and moving around the board was a chore.
we didn't even decide to play the border control game because that idea was ludicrous, too simple and too short, so we jumped straight into the NHS game.

## The basics
The game is hard to explain without playing it at the moment so you may have to bare with me here.
Each player starts of with an empty hospital and must build up using the cards they're given in order to treat the incoming patients.
The goal of the game is to prove to the government that these four hospitals are functional and shouldn't be closed down by surviving for 6 rounds), the players only get 2 chances to prove themselves, so they must lose no more than 2 points throughout the 6 rounds.

The game works in rounds and turns, each round consists of 5 turns.
Each round 8 cards are drawn from the round pile, these include patients which the players must treat and disasters that affect the game globally.
Majority of these cards will be patients, one of four types (Blue, Red, Yellow and Black), and players must build the specific rooms needed to treat all the patients before the end of the round.

### So what do the players do?
On every turn each player gets 3 new cards (From the player deck) added to their hand (Max of 5 cards at a time), these cards can be either build cards, funds or staff members.
Build cards allow players to build rooms in their hospital, players must select what colour room they want to build to correspond with the colour of the
patient they are trying to treat. Each room is a different shape and must fit into the player's hospital grid space (10x10).

Funds are what allow you to use build cards, each build card will come with a specific cost and a fund card of the same or higher value must be used to build the room (Funds cannot be saved. E.g if a building costs 3 and the player has a 4 funds card, they do not get 1 back).

Staff cards allow players to hire a new staff member in their hospital, each room must be staffed in order to cure patients.

This goes on for 5 turns before the next round begins. If the players cure all the patients before this time they are rewarded with a card for each turn left over. If they do not cure all the patients before the next round, the patients carry over into the next round and the players lose a point for each different colour of patients that is left over (Say 4 yellow and one blue patient are left over the player lose 2 points).

### Co-op functionality
All sounds well and dandy but where does the co-op come into play? Each turn is split into 2 phases, trade and build. On the trade phase players can trade once, 1-1, with another player in order to maximise the amount of rooms built per turn and minimize the wasted funds across the 4 hospitals. Each player also has their unique class which gives them advantages.
At the moment there are 4 classes and we're working on more.
- The doctor: Each turn the doctor can roll a d6 and if they land a perfect 6 they can cure all patients of a colour that round.
- the builder: The builder reduces the cost for rooms built in their hospital by 1.
- the trader: The trader can dictate 2 trades per round for free, between any players
- and finally, the negotiator: This class can chose to discard cards and redraw them is they see fit.
With the classes and trading aspect players are encouraged to focus not on their own hospital, but all 4 hospitals as a group in order to build efficiently and win the game.

## Presentation time
If you still don't get it, fear not. We were tasked with making a presentation for our game so here is ours: <br>
<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vR7sEFk2XDvA4i5NAG8dgqAhfn778WxyvVveMNS38V2dEFCsUMd0QkY18bggGs0tBoSVplb7zmwFq-R/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="480" height="299" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

And that wraps things up, for now. With more play test sessions on the way i'm sure there will be more follow up posts at some point, just gotta get this snake game out of the way




